We're now ready to begin the transition to parallelism
In this part of the lesson
I'll explain how I do get operations from java
Sequential streams that we've covered in previous weeks are applied in the context of the job of parallel streams framework
Just a quick recap from earlier
recalled
that a Java stream is a pipeline of aggregate operations
That process
A sequence of elements also known as values or data
Is a career in operations use internal iteration and behaviors
The process elements that flow through a stream
But Depot stream
execute sequentially
So all of it aggregate operations run their behaviors in one thread of control
In contrast
when a stream executes in parallel is partitioned into multiple substream chunks that run in the common Fork
join pool
The present is worth joining pool
9 to terminus tikli process
These different chunks in parallel
The intermediate operations iterate over and process the papers on these chunks in parallel as well
And finally
the strange terminal operation is used to combine the chunks into a single reduce result
Stateless Java
8 Lambda expressions
and Method references are used to pass behaviors into the aggregate operations
Ideally only minuscule changes are needed
Trying to transition from a sequential to a parallel stream
Although we'll see later that you can do more Advanced Techniques in order to ring even further parallelism out of your Solutions
which will ideally help improve performance even further
The same aggregate operations
we've talked about earlier to be used for both sequential and parallel streams and that's reassuring because it means all the things we've covered in the previous week's don't have to be relearn from scratch
In particular the search screen
gang example
case study
we've been focusing on uses the same aggregate operations for both
The search was sequential streams class and the search with Carol Streams class that will be looking at shortly
Therefore
you can treat parallelism as an optimization in Java streams and use it to leverage
All of the available Kors at your disposal to talk later about how you can limit the number
of course
that are used as well
Although
typically you try to use as many cars as possible
If your goal is to get maximum
throughput scalability and latency out of your Solutions
Naturally
the behaviors that you passed
the aggregate operations have to be very carefully designed to avoid accessing any
Unsynchronized shared mutable state
which of course
is the root of all evil in parallel and concurrent programs
As we talked about many talents
In fact
will also see if we go through these slides in this lesson and other lessons
that is very important to understand how to avoid various spellings of Hazzard by programming properly to make sure you share as little beautiful state as possible
Ideally none